---
layout: post
title: Is consent the same as agreement?
date: '2012-09-21T09:29:00.003-05:00'
author: Margomas
description: ""
category: poligion
tags: []
theme:
  name: hooligan
---
{% include JB/setup %}

As I drove to work this
morning, I was pondering a previous post by Salt Prime regarding
consent of the governed. I pondered a series of questions which I post
below hoping to generate discussion over them, as I do not have clear
answers.

Is consenting to a form of government also consenting to the laws
generated by the government in so far as they are constitutional?

Is not consenting the same as not agreeing? For example, while you may
not agree with a decision to declare war, if the decision is made
through constitutional means, are you consenting because you consented
to the constitutional provisions for how war would be declared even
though you disagree with the decision?

What are your options if you disagree with a government action taken
through constitutional means?

What are your options to actualize your dissent to unconstitutional
law?

When should we comply with laws to which we dissent and when should we
actively rebel? Is it worth feeling right and morally justified while
languishing in prison?

Is choosing to comply with laws to which you do not consent the very
definition of slavery?

As it is unlikely man will ever create and abide by a perfect
government to which all consent 100%, is slavery simply a matter of
degree?

Does creation of government neccessitate giving up a certain level of
individual freedom to a collective body?

In the Church we sustain authorities and the decisions of authorities
even though we do not always agree. Should we treat government
authorities the same way in so far as they do not usurp their
constitutional powers?

While I don't have clear answers to these questions, the following
principles seem clearly designed to help preserve freedom amongst
differing opinions about government.

1.  Written constitutions limiting government powers
2.  Power as close to the governed as possible
3.  Elected officials
4.  Power of impeachment
5.  Right of secession

-T.







