---
layout: post
title: Foundations
author: Salt Prime
tags: []
description: ""
category: poligion
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

One of the fundamental principles is a knowledge of what God is.  In a
prior post it was posited that omnipotence is an attribute typically
given to deity.  The dictionary defines omnipotence as “the quality of
having unlimited power.”   Do we take that to mean the ability to do
anything at all?  We can easily propose a paradox demonstrating that
the concept is worthless; Can an omnipotent being create an immovable
object?  If so, we have demonstrated that they are not omnipotent, the
entity should be able to move any object that exist.  If not, they are
unable to create an object of particular characteristics, hence limits
on the power. Omnipotence is what then?  Maybe we must then define
what is meant by “unlimited” power; something along the lines of: an
omnipotent being has unlimited power to enact its will.  In this
definition we are constraining the _power_, but not the _individual_.


Two basic questions arise from this: (1) what are the constraints on
the power, and (2) what is the will of the entity?  Are these rules
self-existent, external to God?  Most of Christianity thoroughly
condemns this idea, proposing that God encompasses all that exists,
everything flows from God, and God is an infinite, eternal being who
has existed, static and unchanging, from all of the past to the utmost
future.  The LDS view rejects that concept of godliness.  Our concept
of a god is defined as an individual who is in absolute compliance
with the natural laws.  A god comes into being from a lesser state,
one in which all the laws are not fully known and hence not fully
followed; that divinity is a progressed state, one that has been
obtained by our Father in Heaven, and accessible to us, his children,
under the same conditions whereby He obtained it.


We must then accept that there are laws that are existent external of
God; that he has learned those laws, and obeys them; that he has
brought his will in complete compliance with their dictates and hence
his will flows unencumbered and complete in its desires.  God is
absolutely free.


At this point you might be tempted to think, “I thought this was a
political blog.  Why are we digressing into kookinanny-hie-to-Kolob
theology?”


This life is a small, and utterly vital, step in our progression
either towards becoming as God, or away from that end.  We have spent
an untold amount of our existence in the presence of our Father,
learning laws, developing our individuality, seeing the fruits of
those labors.  We are given an opportunity to step out on our own and
see what our will truly is.  Are we able to live by the laws that
exist?  How well did we learn those premortal lessons?  Now we are
finally able to demonstrate who we have really become.


God has given us the magnificent gift of agency.  He has declared that
we are free to act.  Indeed, he has commanded us to act and not be
acted upon.  He has spent thousands of years transmitting, preserving,
disseminating, and teaching principles of action.  It then falls upon
us to actually implement them.


The majority of human history has been a story of repression,
conquest, and enslavement of others in an effort to destroy this
liberty.  One scheme after another is put into place where a few try
to rise to the “freedom” of despotism and force all others to become
nothing but an extension of their will.  What a perversion of the
glory of God’s offering!  God offers to everyone complete
independence; mammon professes to offer power at the complete reliance
upon subjugation of others.


The grandeur of the gospel message is a full revelation of freedom.
The commandments inform us of natural law and set an example of godly
living.  They tell us of the conditions that provide opportunity for
liberating action and warn us of those that would bind us.


Thus, if we have any desire for liberty and freedom, it becomes
imperative that we gain the utmost familiarity of the characteristics
of God, that we learn what the natural laws are, and we do everything
we can to bring into existence a social structure that allows, and
even promotes, the ability to act in accordance with this knowledge.
This is the foundation of political action.

