---
layout: post
title: Liberty - Freedom - Agency
date: '2012-09-05T16:29:00.001-05:00'
author: Salt Prime
tags: []
description: ""
category: poligion
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Liberty, freedom, and agency.  We hear these terms brandied about
frequently, and for the most part use them interchangeably.  What do
they actually mean, and how are they related?

## AGENCY

Agency is a fundamental principle of godliness.  It is a right given
to each of us by God.  It is the inherent capacity to be able to
choose.  Agency cannot be abrogated by others, it cannot be limited or
constrained by any external entity.  We willingly requested agency and
as such are bound by the consequences of such a great privilege.
Natural Law dictates that agency is required to approach the divine,
that any entity not endowed with agency cannot be morally judged as
all their actions are based upon and determined by the set of laws
given for the sphere in which they dwell.  Agency is the greatest gift
we can be given.

## FREEDOM

Freedom is the ability to act.  It is the realm of constraints upon
our ability to exercise our agency.  Freedom is measured by the level
of impositions upon our opportunity for choice.  Our freedom can be
compromised by ourselves or others.  Consequences of our actions may
limit our freedom, as can external forces.  We can have a direct
affect on promoting or limiting our freedom, but some restrictions are
completely out of our control.  Our freedom dictates the extent to
which our agency can be implemented.

## LIBERTY

Liberty consists in the social and political environments which create
the level of freedom which we enjoy.  Liberty is purely a function of
inter-human relations and conventions.  Liberty differs from freedom
in that it exists only within a social context;  where there is law
and the enforcement of rights.


Liberty, Freedom, and Agency are three of the grand keys upon which
the Lord's plan of salvation is predicated.  To the extent that any of
them are reduced, we become limited in our ability to act and become
like our Father in Heaven.


## EXAMPLES

In _Life is Beautiful_, a father and his son are confined in a Nazi
concentration camp.  They have no liberty, and their freedom is
severely constrained.  Yet we see the father , Guido, acting through
the use of his agency.  He makes deliberate choices as to how he will
behave and view the deplorable situation he finds himself in.  Guido
finds joys to share with his son.  His actions increase his freedom
that others are trying to deny them.  The father is able to shield his
son from many of the harsh "realities" of their situation and to an
extent remake their world.  While liberty is lacking, agency is
expressed, and therein freedom is found.


The almost exact opposite story is told in the _Count of Monte
Cristo_.  Edmund is imprisoned unjustly, stripping him of all his
liberty.  He falls into despair, sacrificing his what little freedom
remains to him to the bonds of despondency, anger, and fear.  Contact
with the priest brings a measure of hope, prompting action, which
leads to his escape and eventual acquirement of great wealth.  Edmund
has been restored to his prior level of liberty, enhanced greatly in
status and property.  It would appear as though his freedom to act has
also been fully restored, perhaps even increased.  However, upon
discovering the circumstances of his betrayal, Edmund shackles himself
to revenge.  He cannot forgive, he cannot progress.  He becomes a
creature of wrath, bereft of any sort of freedom which is shattered on
the alters of his bitterness.  He becomes so embroiled with hate that
he is no longer able to direct his agency.  Restored to liberty, he
sells his freedom.



While freedom may be rejected in the presence of liberty, and some
portion of freedom can exist when stripped of liberty, the impact and
extent of use of either is dependent on agency.  The imperative then
becomes to maximize the potential, use, and power of agency.  We must
understand how to use agency, and what we are to accomplish with it.
Only in an environment of maximum liberty are we fully able to
comprehend and utilize the full extent of our agency.  If we truly
desire to become as our Father, we should earnestly strive to come to
a knowledge of true principles of liberty, and then implement them,
thus instituting freedom so we can act.  The pursuit of liberty is the
noblest quest of  human society.
