---
layout: post
title: Jigging it
date: '2012-05-10T21:20:00.000-05:00'
author: Salt Prime
tags: []
description: ""
category: poligion
tags: []
theme:
  name: hooligan
---
{% include JB/setup %}


This is in response to Jacque's reply to my
'Partisans' post.  As it got longer, I decided to make it its own
separate post.

-----

We don't need a strong political leader, or leaders, as much as we
need a righteously principled public who recognizes that there are
some things that cannot and should not be compromised on.  As soon as
politics becomes appeasement of the masses, the masses have declared
that they wish to be slaves, and are quickly treated as such.

 Remember that king Noah in Mosiah was a very popular king who ruled
by the adoration of his people.  They were stripped of their
liberties, stripped of their property, stripped of their morals under
his leadership and they reveled in their glory.  When Enoch was shown
the world in the time of Noah (and the ark) and beheld their marvelous
civilization - they attended the operas, flocked to the  art
galleries, sipped tea and nibbled crumpets while discoursing elegantly
- he beheld the Lord weeping and couldn't understand it.  Then the
Lord said, "Let me show you their private lives," and pulled away the
mask of the facade of their civilization. It was then Enoch wept
bitterly and declared that they deserved to be wiped utterly from the
face of the earth.

Again, and again, it is the cleansing of the inner vessels that is
required, not the championing of a great leader.  Society is merely
the shadow of the people, and if it is crooked and malformed, nothing
can straighten it but by fixing that from which it is cast.  Right now
in society we are merely shifting the light source and playing
architectural games with the surface the shadow is being cast on to
make it appear correct.  A whole other segment is gaining traction by
proclaiming that the distorted pattern is so much better than the old
plain one because it has so much more 'character' or 'individuality'.
Stability, peace, and prosperity have never been, and never can be
built on the back of a hunchbacked drunken jester staggering to the
broken tune of a malicious pied piper.

