---
layout: post
title: Conversion
date: '2012-09-18T06:17:00.001-05:00'
author: Mom
description: ""
category: poligion
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

[In reflecting on some recent family experiences, here are some
perspectives and insights.]



First of all Al Qaeda and Muslims are not the same thing. Members of
Al Qaeda claim to be Muslims but not all and actually not many Muslims
are members of Al Qaeda. Those who truly follow the Muslim religion
are some of the best people around. They live a very caring and
dedicated life. They are truly good people and can make wonderful
neighbors and friends.



Second, from the book of Romans, being a Jew and being circumcised
does not make you a better than anyone else. If you don't live the law
you proclaim to follow you truly aren't worthy of the “blessings” that
go with the title. Romans 2 states you will be judged by the law you
live not the law you proclaim to belong to.



Last, from the time of Alma until the time of the coming of Christ to
the Americas the Prophets went about teaching and reclaiming the
members of their church to Christianity. They did this over and over
again. The people would humble themselves for a time then would fall
back into pride and contentious activities. Many of the people of the
church at that time would begin to persecute those who did not belong
to the church or those who had less possessions than they did. Only a
few remained faithful in their beliefs and actions.



Today we find much the same in behaviors. Many people claiming a
belief, yet not willing to live accordingly. Outwardly they want
others to see them as a devout follower of something good, they don't
want to put effort in following what they profess. Being a member of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints doesn't make you a
Christian nor does it make you a saint. Only living the principles
that are taught therein will make you either a Christian or a saint.
Being a Jew doesn't make you one of the chosen people. Only living the
righteous principles can make you part of the chosen group. Being a
member of any Christian church does not make you a Christian. Only
walking in the way of Christ truly makes you a Christian. You may lay
a claim to the title, but to actually be one you must follow the
principles that the organization stands on and for. This also comes to
being an American. You may be a citizen of the Untied States which
then you can claim to be an American but unless you understand and
live by the constitution following the laws that were set up therein
are you really an American.



It is something to think about. Where do you stand on any of these
positions? Are you what you profess to be?



-V. Salt

