---
layout: post
title: Partisans
author: Salt Prime
description: ""
category: poligion
tags: []
theme:
  name: hooligan
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Perhaps the incident that finally pushed us
into posting comments came from a statement made by an individual on
Facebook and the replies to it. An individual had read an article on a
news site alleging certain positions and actions by a political party.
Said individual gobbled up the partisan rhetoric and the line of
conversation immediately proceeded to, "Yeah! Our guy is so good and
those guys are so bad! This article proves my position!"; the gist of
it being that their guy was trying to solve all the problems and the
other guys, by opposing him, were not solving problems. One of the
basic fallacies encountered here, other than that of partisan
politics, which I am adamantiumly opposed to, is that opposition to
problem solving means that you are in favor of the problems. If an
entire group of individuals opposes a proposed solution, a very
diligent look needs to be taken at _why_ they are hindering its
implementation. Even if based on partisan bickering, if a solid
majority are not willing to back an action, an alternative needs to be
found. Much more distressing in this situation was that the proposed
"solutions" to the "problems" are diametrically opposed to the
theological beliefs those clamoring for them proclaim to support. Only
the very ignorant or the hypocritical can spout hosannas of praise for
their church while at the same time slavering for implementation of
political processes attempting to destroy some of the precepts that it
holds most dear.

