---
layout: post
title: How to get started in politics
date: '2012-09-09T18:00:00.003-05:00'
author: Margomas
tags: []
description: ""
category: poligion
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

I was recently asked how someone could get started in politics. The
implication was that I am "experienced at it". The truth is that like
anyone else my wife and I are feeling our way out in how to get
involved. Hopefully we are doing some things right, but primarily we
are just trying to do something for good government. I would say the
best thing to do is to just do something. Write a letter to a
congressman, support a candidate, read a book about economics, etc. Or
even consider running for office! My commitment to being involved
politically sometimes comes in spurts. I often say a good day is a day
when I didn't read the news. Ignorance truly is bliss. Yet if I did
not strive to do my duty, I think the words of Moroni would convict
me. "Can you think to sit upon your thrones in thoughtless stupor,
while your enemies are spreading the work of death around you? ....And
now my beloved brethren--for ye ought to be beloved; yea, and ye ought
to have stirred yourselves more diligently for the welfare and the
freedom of this people..." (Alma 60:7,10)


The first thing to do in my mind is to study principles of good and
righteous government so we can develop skills to discern truth and
develop a foundation to frame our thoughts. Unfortunately debate on
national issues often resides in the shallow soil of policies and
procedures and rarely seems to get into the bedrock of questions
regarding what principles should guide us. I have found the John Birch
Society to be a good resource in studying principles of government.
JBS.org has a lot of resources and there are probably some JBS
chapters in Oklahoma City as well as all over the nation. I got my
political start and love of libertarianism through connections to the
JBS as a youth. On the level of studying and learning principles by
which to guide our political actions, I firmly believe we need to
liberate ourselves of the mental box created by major media. One of
the most insidious impacts of major media in my mind is to create the
box that constrains national dialogue. As the saying goes, we need to
think outside of the box. The same goes for political parties, which
tend to constrain debate to false options. We need to look beyond
political parties for guidance and knowledge.



The second thing to do is to cry, because we have departed so far as a
nation from the great gift of liberty God and our forebearers gave us.
But when you're done crying, then all we can do is get to work and do
the best you know how, and let God take care of the rest. Like
President Monson says, "Do your duty, that is best, leave unto the
Lord the rest".



We have found a lot of meaning in campaigning for Ron Paul, because we
feel he truly stands for liberty and our Constitution. This year we
have also spent a great deal of time campaigning for a local candidate
for state representative, because he is an honest, upright, and God-
fearing man. D&C 98:10 says, "Wherefore, honest men and wise men
should be sought for diligently, and good men and wise men ye should
observe to uphold; otherwise whatsoever is less than these cometh of
evil." We have recognized that by the time a general election is upon
us, the choices of candidates are essentially already fixed. To have
more influence, we have decided we have to get involved in the
political process a long time before the ballot box. We have also
joined the central committee for a political party in our county so we
can try to have more influence on the political process in our area.
While we do not like political parties and wish they did not exist, we
have finally decided that the reality of the moment is that two
political parties have a stranglehold on the political process in our
nation, and if we are going to have much beyond superficial influence
politically, we are going to to have to do so via a political party.
We believe the two major political parties in this nation are highly
corrupt on the national level and both are sending our nation
careening into an abyss. We actually see little difference in the
FRUITS of either political party on the national level in spite of the
incessant rhetoric regarding differences in philosophies.



Ultimately we believe and know that God controls the destiny of
nations. Ben Franklin said that a sparrow cannot fall to the ground
without God's notice, and surely an empire cannot rise without His
aid. So, perhaps the best "political" tool we have is prayer. We can
implore the Lord to raise up righteous men and women to govern us. And
of course we can learn righteous principles so we can govern ourselves
well, as Joseph Smith taught. The better men govern themselves, the
less cry there is to have someone else govern them. Taking
responsibilities for the natural consequences in our own lives is part
of this, rather than trying to cast the burden on society, i.e. the
government.



My  personal conviction is that the Lord will cause a separation among
the people of this nation and of the world. An example (there are
more) of a scripture prophesying of this event is 2 Nephi 30:10, which
states, "For the time speedily cometh that the Lord God shall cause a
great division among the people, and the wicked will he destroy; and
he will spare his people, yea, even if it so be that he must destroy
the wicked by fire". I don't believe that this refers to a division
along partisan lines or anything like that, but rather between those
who have God as their king and those who don't. The Lord repeatedly
told the Nephites and Lamanites that if they were righteous and had
Christ for their King, they would prosper in the land, but if not,
they would be destroyed. I personally believe our nation is ripening
in iniquity and ripening for destruction for many reasons. However, I
do not believe it will be a wholesale destruction but rather a
division as prophesied in Nephi, because there are so many who serve
and honor God. Among the people I associate with both in and out of
the Church, I feel I have seen a growing dedication to God. At the
same time wickedness casts a lowering shadow over the land, the
brightness of truth and righteousness is also growing in intensity.
However, these cannot long coexist, and in a coming day the darkness
will be eradicated. I say all of this in relation to politics for two
reasons. First, I believe God stands for our constitutional government
and the liberty of mankind, and I believe when we reject the
Constitution and principles of liberty in favor of alternate ideas, we
are rejecting God's principles. Second, I believe that no matter how
hard we work for liberty or other principles of godliness, it is
ultimately God who will bring the victory. Similar to Gideon in the
Old Testament, it is not the strength, wisdom, or efforts of man that
will allow liberty to prevail, but rather The grace and goodness and
power of God magnifying the efforts of the those who fight for
liberty.







I believe in optimism. There have always been trying times on the
earth. We cannot get discouraged about what we cannot control. We can
only do our best to be our best and to influence others to be their
best, and then be happy! The Lord has a plan for His children and for
this earth, and man cannot destroy His plan. Men who do not follow
God's plan can only destroy themselves. Cecil Demille, producer of the
movie, "The Ten Commandments", stated in a commencement address at BYU
in 1957:







"Some, who do not know either the Bible or human nature, may see in
the orgy of the Golden Calf only a riot of Hollywood's imaginations--
but those who have eyes to see will see in it the awful lesson of how
quickly a nation or a man can fall, without God's law. If man will not
be ruled by God, he will certainly be ruled by tyrants- and there is
no tyranny more imperious or more devastating than man's own
selfishness, without law. We cannot break the Ten Commandments. We can
only break ourselves against them- or else, by keeping them, rise
through them to the fulness of freedom under God. God means us to be
free. With divine daring, He gave us the power of choice."



-T

