---
layout: post
title: Spelunking
author: Salt Prime
tags: []
description: ""
category: poligion
tags: []
theme:
  name: hooligan
---
{% include JB/setup %}

"Oku no hitobito to onazi youni, watashitachi wa kami-sama ga
ikiteorareru koto wo shite imasu."  For any missionary who served in
Japan back when the six lesson manuals were being used before the
introduction of Preach My Gospel, those words are indelibly imprinted
in your memory.  "Like many other people, we believe that God
lives/exists."  The following paragraphs went on to describe the
characteristics of God in order to begin to give a foundation for what
we believed.  These foundation principles set the stage upon which
everything else was predicated.

As we propose that there is a God, it is absolutely essential that we
define what that statement even means.  What is a god?  What are the
defining characteristics of such an entity?  If this is to be the
basis for your world view, shouldn't you know the answers to these
questions?  There is an overwhelming lack of interest or discussion
among many people of the world today.  Is it truly worship to give
obeisance to an ephemeral quasi-concept that one hasn't even tried to
grasp or comprehend?

One defining trait often given to deity is immense power, even
omnipotence.  Can something actually be omnipotent?  What does that
even mean?  No wonder ontology is such a shunned field.  Apparently
simple questions quickly end up widening the tiny rabbit hole into a
gaping, sucking maw.  One question leads to another, and another, and
another....each of which seems to need an answer before the prior can
be fully complete.  Do we give up in despair and proclaim the whole
issue to be too complex, too vague, too unknowable?  How far down the
hole do we even need to go? Should we let the priests and academics
fight it out; just tell me a pretty message and make me feel good and
I'll trust you that there is something behind the curtain?

I think it is absolutely vital to take a dip in the pool of being;
swim around for a bit, test the waters.  Even if one does not wish to
take a theological view of existence, at some point one must define
the foundation of their principles.  Failing to do so inevitably dooms
one to be a marionette tangled in the strings of the world stage,
pulled hither and thither by the movements of actors.  There are few
things more pitiful than an individual who has lost their agency
because their blindness has uprooted them and they have been swept
from any moorings that could hold them steady.

