---
layout: post
title: Man, Oh, Man
date: '2013-10-23T21:19:00.001-05:00'
author: Salt Prime
description: ""
category: poligion
tags: []
theme:
  name: hooligan
---
{% include JB/setup %}

From my brother:



I saw an article today about an alligator snapping turtle being found
in Oregon. The department of fish and wildlife resources exterminated
the turtle because it was not supposed to be in Oregon. The article
stated the following:



"[Alligator snapping
turtles](http://animals.nationalgeographic.com/animals/reptiles
/alligator-snapping-turtle/), with their scaly tails, spiked shells,
and powerful beaked jaws, do not belong anywhere but their native
southeastern United States habitat (where they’re a threatened
species). There, in swamps and river and canals, they help balance the
ecosystem.



Beyond that territory, though, they’re regarded as pests with the
potential to adversely impact native fishes and small amphibian
species (they’ll even devour ducklings), and spread disease. Their
extremely powerful bite also makes them dangerous to humans."



Apparently man is supposed to whip nature back into shape when it gets
out of line. How dare a snapping turtle leave its man-declared native
habit! Keep those turtles where they belong! Give a turtle a break. He
was just practicing natural selection: after all, his species is
endangered in its native habitat. He might just be looking for a less
dangerous place to live. Guess he didn't find one.



Apparently another reason to keep the turtles in check is because they
can be dangerous to humans. But what about wolves and cougars?
Apparently those have been declared native and we are supposed to
welcome them back. And as far as global warming is concerned, how dare
the earth get warmer than it is supposed to be! Man believes he can
regulate the earth's temperature through political mandates. Oh the
pride of man!



See article :<http://www.grindtv.com/outdoor/nature/post/prehistoric-
looking-alligator-snapping-turtle-is-not-wanted-in-oregon/>

