---
layout: post
title: Plundering the Soul
date: '2013-10-01T06:06:00.004-05:00'
author: Salt Prime
description: ""
category: poligion
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

So much focus is placed on the "political process" and "If only we
could get our guy in there!"  Yet increasingly it is becoming obvious
that these are false processes.  Government of the people, by the
people.  Consent of the governed.  Don't we throw those around a lot?
If the people are despotic, are we surprised that the government that
is elected is as well?  As long as it is _my_ guy that is doing the
looting, killing, destroying of _them_ then everything is ok, but hey,
don't loot, kill, or destroy _me_!  So many of us readily endorse all
sorts of demonic policies, especially if we can directly take credit
for supporting them.  As a people, we have been thoroughly deceived by
the cunning and craftiness of the evil one.  We no longer care about
the difference between law and legislation.  We don't care about the
destruction of those around us for power and prestige.  We don't
recognize liberty or freedom; we don't even conceptually know what
they are.  And many of those that superficially spout laudatory
accolades to the concepts of agency and liberty also deeply espouse
and promote policies and actions that are absolutely antithetical to
the ends they proclaim to hold.  Educating ourselves, and then others;
learning truth and passing it on â€“ this is the only way we can achieve
peace and prosperity, not the corruption that is modern politics.

