---
layout: post
title: False Heros
date: '2014-01-15T06:28:00.002-06:00'
author: Salt Prime
description: ""
category: poligion
tags: []
theme:
  name: hooligan
---
{% include JB/setup %}

"It is forbidden to kill; therefore all murderers are punished unless
they kill in large numbers and to the sound of trumpets.” ~ Voltaire



Here is the famed Seneca, writing in the first century:

> We are mad, not only individually, but nationally. We check
manslaughter and isolated murders; but what of war and the much
vaunted crime of slaughtering whole peoples? There are no limits to
our greed, none to our cruelty. And as long as such crimes are
committed by stealth and by individuals, they are less harmful and
less portentous; but cruelties are practised in accordance with acts
of senate and popular assembly, and the public is bidden to do that
which is forbidden to the individual. Deeds that would be punished by
loss of life when committed in secret, are praised by us because
uniformed generals have carried them out.

The early Christian author Lactantius said of the Romans:

> They despise indeed the excellence of the athlete, because there is
no harm in it; but royal excellence, because it is wont to do harm
extensively, they so admire that they think that brave and warlike
generals are placed in the assembly of the gods, and that there is no
other way to immortality than by leading armies, devastating foreign
(countries), destroying cities, overthrowing towns, (and) either
slaughtering or enslaving free peoples. Truly, the more men they have
afflicted, despoiled, (and) slain, the more noble and renowned do they
think themselves; and, captured by the appearance of empty glory, they
give the name of excellence to their crimes. Now I would rather that
they should make gods for themselves from the slaughter of wild beasts
than that they should approve of an immortality so bloody. If any one
has slain a single man, he is regarded as contaminated and wicked, nor
do they think it right that he should be admitted to this earthly
dwelling of the gods. But he who has slaughtered endless thousands of
men, deluged the fields with blood, (and) infected rivers (with it),
is admitted not only to a temple, but even to heaven.



Just as you can’t have a war on drugs without DEA agents, just as you
can’t have invasive airline security procedures without TSA agents,
and just as you can't have a police state without police, so you can’t
have a war without soldiers.



This mindset that exalts and excuses soldiers for doing things that
ordinary Americans would be put in prison for must be destroyed.




See: [You Can't Have a War Without
Soldiers](http://www.lewrockwell.com/2014/01/laurence-m-vance/you-
cant-have-a-war-without-soldiers/)-Laurence M. Vance






